# JHU Meditation
This study is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) that aims to understand the impact of a daily meditation practice called Centering on well-being and health behaviors, as well as the influence of religious/spiritual meaning on the outcomes of the practice. The study design involves randomly assigning participants to one of three conditions: passive control (waitlist), active placebo (centering practice using a neutral word), and experimental (centering practice using a religious/spiritual word). The study will last four weeks and participants will complete brief daily surveys to self-report their well-being and health behaviors. Follow-up assessments will be conducted one day, one week, and one month after the four-week practice period. Optional study activities include journal entries and data gathering through a smartphone-based remote sensor measurement app. The randomization will be performed through the Qualtrics online survey platform. This study is a randomized controlled trial aimed at understanding the impact of a daily meditation practice called Centering on well-being and health behaviors, as well as the influence of religious/spiritual meaning on the outcomes of the practice. The sample size will consist of 234 participants in each of the three conditions (experimental, active placebo, and passive control). The primary outcome variable is the Flourishing Scale, and secondary outcome variables include self-reported affect balance and behavioral measures of physical activity, sleep, and social interaction. The study will last four weeks and participants will complete brief daily surveys. The data will be analyzed using mixed ANOVAs, t-tests, and mediation analyses. Optional study activities include journal entries and smartphone sensor data, which will be analyzed using Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC), natural language processing (NLP), interpretive phenomenological analysis (IPA), and mixed ANOVAs. The study will exclude data from participants who fail to respond accurately to the accuracy check or fail to complete 10 or more daily surveys.
